.TH GETFATTR 1 "Extended Attributes" "Dec 2001" "File Utilities"
.SH NAME
getfattr \- get extended attributes of filesystem objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\f3getfattr\f1 [\f3\-hRLP\f1] \f3\-n name\f1 [\f3\-e en\f1] \c
\f3pathname\f1...
\f3getfattr\f1 [\f3\-hRLP\f1] \f3\-d\f1 [\f3\-e en\f1] \c
[\f3\-m pattern\f1] \f3pathname\f1...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each file,
.B getfattr
displays the file name,
and the set of extended attribute names (and optionally values) which
are associated with that file.
.PP
The output format of
.B "getfattr \-d"
is as follows:
.fam C
.RS
.nf
 1:  # file: somedir/
 2:  user.name0="value0"
 3:  user.name1="value1"
 4:  user.name2="value2"
 5:  ...
.fi
.RE
.fam T
.PP
Line 1 identifies the file name for which the
following lines are being reported.
The remaining lines (lines 2 to 4 above) show the
.I name
and 
.I value
pairs associated with the specified file.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP 4
.BR \-n " \f2name\f1, " \-\-name "=\f2name\f1"
Dump the value of the named extended attribute extended attribute.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dump
Dump the values of all extended attributes associated with
.IR pathname .
.TP
.BR \-e " \f2en\f1, " \-\-encoding "=\f2en\f1"
Encode values after retrieving them.
Valid values of
.I en
are "text", "hex", and "base64".
Values encoded as text strings are enclosed in double quotes ("),
while strings encoded as hexidecimal and base64 are prefixed with
0x and 0s, respectively.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-no-dereference
Do not dereference symlinks. Instead of the file a symlink refers to, the
symlink itself is examined.
.TP
.BR \-m " \f2pattern\f1, " \-\-match "=\f2pattern\f1"
Only include attributes with names matching the regular expression
.IR pattern .
The default value for
.I pattern
is "^user\\\\.", 
which includes all the attributes in the user namespace. Specify "\-" for
including all attributes.  Refer to
.BR attr (5)
for a more detailed discussion of namespaces.
.TP
.B \-\-absolute-names
Do not strip leading slash characters ('/').
The default behaviour is to strip leading slash characters.
.TP
.B \-\-only-values
Dump out the extended attribute value(s) only.
.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-recursive
List the attributes of all files and directories recursively.
.TP
.BR \-L ", " \-\-logical
Logical walk, follow symbolic links to directories.
The default behaviour is to follow symbolic link arguments, and to 
skip symbolic links encountered in subdirectories.
Only effective in combination with \-R.
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-physical
Physical walk, do not follow symbolic links to directories.
This also skips symbolic link arguments.
Only effective in combination with \-R.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version of
.B getfattr
and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print help explaining the command line options.
.TP
.B \-\-
End of command line options.
All remaining parameters are interpreted as file names, even if they
start with a dash character.
.SH AUTHOR
Andreas Gruenbacher,
.RI < a.gruenbacher@bestbits.at >
and the SGI XFS development team,
.RI < linux-xfs@oss.sgi.com >.
.P
Please send your bug reports or comments to these addresses.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
setfattr(1), and attr(5).
