.\" Access Control Lists manual pages
.\"
.\" (C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@bestbits.at>
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd March 23, 2002
.Dt ACL_CREATE_ENTRY 3
.Os "Linux ACL"
.Sh NAME
.Nm acl_create_entry
.Nd create a new ACL entry
.Sh LIBRARY
Linux Access Control Lists library (libacl, \-lacl).
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/acl.h
.Ft int
.Fn acl_create_entry "acl_t *acl_p" "acl_entry_t *entry_p"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn acl_create_entry
function creates a new ACL entry in the ACL pointed to by the contents of the pointer argument
.Va acl_p .
On success, the function returns a descriptor for the new
ACL entry via
.Va entry_p .
.Pp
This function may cause memory to be allocated.  The caller should free any
releasable memory, when the new ACL is no longer required, by calling
.Xr acl_free 3
with
.\" <AG>
.\" 1003.1e says:
.\" .Va (void*)acl_t
.\" this makes no sense, so:
.Va (void*)*acl_p
.\" </AG>
as an argument.
If the ACL working storage cannot be increased in the current location,
then the working storage for the ACL pointed to by
.Va acl_p
may be relocated and the previous working storage is released. A pointer to
the new working storage is returned via
.Va acl_p .
.Pp
The components of the new ACL entry are initialized in the following ways: the
ACL tag type component contains ACL_UNDEFINED_TAG, the qualifier component
contains ACL_UNDEFINED_ID, and the set of permissions has no permissions
enabled. Any existing ACL entry descriptors that refer to entries in the ACL
continue to refer to those entries.
.\" <AG>
.\" Conflict between requirements:
.\" (a) ACL may be relocated,
.\" (b) all pointers remain valid.
.\" </AG>
.Sh RETURN VALUE
.Rv -std acl_create_entry
.Sh ERRORS
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.Fn acl_create_entry
function returns
.Li -1
and sets
.Va errno
to the corresponding value:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The argument
.Va acl_p
is not a valid pointer to an ACL.
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
The ACL working storage requires more memory than is allowed by the hardware or system-imposed memory management constraints.
.El
.Sh STANDARDS
IEEE Std 1003.1e draft 17 (\(lqPOSIX.1e\(rq, abandoned)
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr acl_init 3 ,
.Xr acl_delete_entry 3 ,
.Xr acl_free 3 ,
.Xr acl_create_entry 3 ,
.Xr acl 5
.Sh AUTHOR
Derived from the FreeBSD manual pages written by
.An "Robert N M Watson" Aq rwatson@FreeBSD.org ,
and adapted for Linux by
.An "Andreas Gruenbacher" Aq a.gruenbacher@bestbits.at .
