.\" Access Control Lists manual pages
.\"
.\" (C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@bestbits.at>
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd March 23, 2002
.Dt ACL_VALID 3
.Os "Linux ACL"
.Sh NAME
.Nm acl_valid
.Nd validate an ACL
.Sh LIBRARY
Linux Access Control Lists library (libacl, \-lacl).
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/acl.h
.Ft int
.Fn acl_valid "acl_t acl"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn acl_valid
function checks the ACL referred to by the argument
.Va acl
for validity.
.Pp
The three required entries ACL_USER_OBJ, ACL_GROUP_OBJ, and ACL_OTHER
must exist exactly once in the ACL. If the ACL contains any ACL_USER or
ACL_GROUP entries, then an ACL_MASK entry is also required. The ACL
may contain at most one ACL_MASK entry.
.Pp
The user identifiers must be unique among all entries of type ACL_USER.
The group identifiers must be unique among all entries of type ACL_GROUP.
.Sh RETURN VALUE
.Rv -std acl_valid
.Sh ERRORS
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.Fn acl_valid
function returns
.Li -1
and sets
.Va errno
to the corresponding value:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The argument
.Va acl
is not a valid pointer to an ACL.
.Pp
The argument
.Va acl
does not point to a valid ACL.
.Pp
One or more of the required ACL entries is not present in
.Va acl .
.Pp
The ACL contains entries that are not unique.
.El
.Sh STANDARDS
IEEE Std 1003.1e draft 17 (\(lqPOSIX.1e\(rq, abandoned)
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr acl_check 3 ,
.Xr acl_set_file 3 ,
.Xr acl 5
.Sh AUTHOR
Derived from the FreeBSD manual pages written by
.An "Robert N M Watson" Aq rwatson@FreeBSD.org ,
and adapted for Linux by
.An "Andreas Gruenbacher" Aq a.gruenbacher@bestbits.at .
