.\" Access Control Lists manual pages
.\"
.\" (C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@bestbits.at>
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd March 23, 2002
.Dt ACL_FROM_TEXT 3
.Os "Linux ACL"
.Sh NAME
.Nm acl_from_text
.Nd create an ACL from text
.Sh LIBRARY
Linux Access Control Lists library (libacl, \-lacl).
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/acl.h
.Ft acl_t
.Fn acl_from_text "const char *buf_p"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn acl_from_text
function converts the text form of the ACL referred to by
.Va buf_p
into the internal form of an ACL and returns a pointer to the working storage
that contains the ACL. The
.Fn acl_from_text
function accepts as input the long text form and short text form of an ACL as described in
.Xr acl 5 .
.Pp
This function may cause memory to be allocated.  The caller should free any
releasable memory, when the new ACL is no longer required, by calling
.Xr acl_free 3
with the
.Va (void*)acl_t
returned by
.Fn acl_from_text
as an argument.
.Sh RETURN VALUE
On success, this function returns a pointer to the
working storage.  On error, a value of
.Li (acl_t)NULL
is returned, and
.Va errno
is set appropriately.
.Sh ERRORS
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.Fn acl_from_text
function returns a value of
.Li (acl_t)NULL
and sets
.Va errno
to the corresponding value:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The argument
.Va buf_p
cannot be translated into an ACL.
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
The
.Va acl_t
to be returned requires more memory than is allowed by the hardware or
system-imposed memory management constraints.
.El
.Sh STANDARDS
IEEE Std 1003.1e draft 17 (\(lqPOSIX.1e\(rq, abandoned)
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr acl_free 3 ,
.Xr acl_get_entry 3 ,
.Xw acl_to_text 3 ,
.Xr acl 5
.Sh AUTHOR
Derived from the FreeBSD manual pages written by
.An "Robert N M Watson" Aq rwatson@FreeBSD.org ,
and adapted for Linux by
.An "Andreas Gruenbacher" Aq a.gruenbacher@bestbits.at .
